---
layout: post
title:  "Digital Economics Scholor Series 1: Catherine Tucker"
date:   2020-04-19 23:39:47 -0400
#image:  images/02.jpg
tags:   [scholar]
---

Catherine Tucker is the scholar that most of my research interests refer to. She graduated from Stanford with a PhD in economics. Nowadays her work covers the hottest topics in digital economics. In an era when data is the weapon, her work will be extremely helpful in understanding the revolution hidden behind the computers. As the first episode of digital economics, I would like to talk about this outstanding economist.

First, I would like to discuss each of her papers. This would be long enough and probably not finished today. We will see. In order to understand how the style of one scholar forms, the best way is to read her or his earliest paper. Her first paper, published on Management Science in 2008, is titled " Identifying Formal and Informal Influence in Technology Adoption with Network Externalities". This solo-authored paper is really an good example to follow about how to use large user-level data. She uses the introduction of a video-messaging technology in an investment bank to study the network externalities. The next paper is also related to the topic I like so much, even though it is published in a managment-science journal. The title is called "Economic and Business Dimensions : search engine advertising". The paper discusses a feature of search engine advertising, whose conceptual framework is very subtle for me to understand. But I wonder how to publish such a paper which is impossible for economic or finance journal. The next paper is trying to provide a canonical model for social interaction. Social interaction is very complicated partly because of its multi-dimensionality. On one hand, two users can respond to each other repeatedly. On the other hand, one users can interact with multiple other users. The system is very complicated. The journal is not so prestigious. I wonder what it talks about. The next publication is Management Science again. The topic "Privacy Protection" appeared even in 2009. In the US, user information protection first appears in the field of medical system in the US. It is very sensitive to publicize private information about one's disease. This paper is to use electronic medical records to study the technology and privacy, I guess mostly related to Network technology. 
