---
layout: post
title:  "Corporate Research and Development"
date:   2020-04-25 10:16:47 -0400
#image:  images/02.jpg
tags:   [R&D]
---


This paper studies how corporate R&D will affect their employees' mobility. The importance of this question can be multifaceted. Based on my personal research interests, I will try to understand from two perspectives. The first is how the entrepreneurship is bred. According to statistics, most of the founders of startups have working experience in some established companies. The literature has been investigating what factors drive those employees to give up their previous positions and become an entrepreneur. This paper gives us a potential answer that corporate R&D activities will lead more of their employees to become entreprenuers. The next one follows immediately. Corporate R&D is known to have a spillover effect. That is why legislation decides to give R&D activity tax credits to compensate for their contributions to social welfare. The trational wisdom thinks that corporate R&D has spillover effects on their competitors technology by giving them direction and incentive to upgrade technology. This paper is talking about another spillover channel, through which their employees are reallocated to different sectors in the economy with the human capital they gain from this activity. 

The first comment is about the exclusion condition of the R&D tax price. The paper relies on the tax credit affects labors' mobility only through the R&D channel. I can imagine a situation where the change of the tax credit is purely based on legislators' discretion and completely unexpected at least to some extent. However, I am very concerned about this based on the background of implementation of R&D tax credits. It is pushed greatly by industry leading firms. If this is due to strategic actions by the firm or the firm's big competitors, we cannot rule out that a new technology is giving incentive to the firms to push the legislators to give credits and also incentives to employees to become an entreprenuer.

The second comment is how should we interpret the research question. Is the labor mobility purely decided by employees? The answer is not yes 100%. For example, non-competing clause is a determinant, especially for employees in R\&D department. Most of the high-tech companies will need their core employees to sign up non-competing clauses. If employees choose to leave, they cannot go anywhere they want. If the labor mobility is partly exposed to firms' manipulation, then R\&D and labor mobility may be results of a joint decision. The authors address this by adding a non-competing clause as the control, which can mitigate the concern. If we reverse the position, is R&D really just a decision of firm and out of employees' control? Maybe not because the employees in R&D department, often, are also intiator of the R&D project.

The third comment is about the sample selection bias. As we know, R&D expenditure is still voluntarily reported. Here is the key problem. We do not know why firms choose not to report their R&D. 

The final comment is about the quantitative result. In the paper, preference towards OLS estimate is expressed. I would be concerned about this. I strongly suggest that the authors can articulate the economic question, give a clear model about how decisions are made instead of keeping silent about the structure. This is important to the validity of the empirical setting.

But it can be a causality question ex-post, meaning that now the firms and employees have signed contracts, what if firms get an exogenous increase in incentive to invest more on R&D, say, a new technology or new investment opportunity, neither firms nor employees expect that. The question would be: if there is an exogenous increase in investment oppportunities on which firms decide to do R&D, how many of their employees will jump to found the startups?

So I would strongly recommend the author to make this point clear because that is related to how we should interpret OLS and IV, which leads us to the second comment.The author prefer OLS as the estimate because quantitatively IV estimate is only local average treatment effect and represents the magnitudes for adjustable R\&D projects. However, as we mentioned in comment 1, the OLS estimate here is hard to interpret because it is a combination of both ex-ante and ex-post effect. I don't think it a good choice to use OLS as the main quantitative results. It should be just a benchmark. Then we have no quantitative results here that are feasible. 

Labor mobility, especially the labor with skilled human capital, is very important to corporate finance studies even in the old days when then mobility of CEOs, the employees with managerial talents, is the common topic. We study managers because we want to know what is the optimal contract that give incentives to managers to work hard. Similarly, it is also very important to know what kind of factors that are driving the mobility of employees, why they choose to leave, to move, or to start a new venture since each of these decisions is highly related to firms' profitability. Firms want to retain good human capitals, many of which are actually unique. Losing them will incur a huge searching cost. 

This paper focuses on corporate R&D and finds that R&D has no effect on employees' retention, exit, or mobility to incumbent firms except joining the founding teams of startups that are backed by Venture Capital. 

As far as I know, this is the first paper to document a causal effect of corporate R&D on employees' mobility. The empirical analysis is very carefully executed, especially using Census data to track individual career history. Based on detailed micro-level data, the author gives a comprehensive analysis of the economic mechanism. I really admire the cautious attitude the authors hold towards IV estimate. But I think, for this paper, it is of first-order consideration to make it clear what the right question is. After getting that crystal clear, we can have a better understanding of how to interpret both OLS and IV estimate. 

Then we come to the first comment. We need to further articulate the research question because I am confused about whether this question should be a causality question or just correlation. The implicit assumption here is that corporate makes R\&D decision and employees make mobility decisions separately. Most of the cases the two decisions are made without any direct connections. Is the labor mobility purely decided by employees? The answer is no because of non-competing clause, especially for employees in R\&D department. R&D is one of the corporate tasks that require the most human capitals that are highly educated and professional. It is highly risky, costly, and has spillover effects. So most of the high-tech companies will need their core employees to sign up non-competing clauses. The takeaway of this is that the labor mobility of the employees is not only individual decisions but their employers'. 

Since the mobility decision is also determined by firms ahead of time, the joint decision of R\&D and employees' mobility are made at the same time. Firms are internalizing the spillover effects of R&D into their investment consideration. So the ex-ante question is if the firm wants to invest more in R&D, how many of their employees will choose to sign the contract and follow the restrictions of mobility? Then OLS is enough because we are not asking a causal question. I would like to use an analogy to make this clear (running a little risk of going off the road). If the employees are not allowed to leave, the labor mobility and R&D are jointly determined by the firm. It makes no sense to ask that question. The causality is more related to something out of control and unexpected. 

But it can be a causality question ex-post, meaning that now the firms and employees have signed contracts, what if firms get an exogenous increase in incentive to invest more on R&D, say, a new technology or new investment opportunity, neither firms nor employees expect that. The question would be: if there is an exogenous increase in investment oppportunities on which firms decide to do R&D, how many of their employees will jump to found the startups?

So I would strongly recommend the author to make this point clear because that is related to how we should interpret OLS and IV, which leads us to the second comment.The author prefer OLS as the estimate because quantitatively IV estimate is only local average treatment effect and represents the magnitudes for adjustable R\&D projects. However, as we mentioned in comment 1, the OLS estimate here is hard to interpret because it is a combination of both ex-ante and ex-post effect. I don't think it a good choice to use OLS as the main quantitative results. It should be just a benchmark. Then we have no quantitative results here that are feasible. 


However, IV estimate suffer from the caveat that it uses local average treatment effect to proxy for average treatment effect, which has been discussed in the paper. It captures mainly the unadjustable R&D activities. But I actually prefer this proxy because I coincide with the ex-post question. 

 
