---
layout: post
title:  "Monetary Policy on Deposits: A New perspective"
date:   2020-04-19 23:39:47 -0400
#image:  images/02.jpg
tags:   [data security under COVID]
---

It has been investigated for a long time about the effect of monetary policies on lending activities of banking sectors and firms' capital costs. The initial goal of using monetary policies is to activate firms' investment and therefore reduce unemployment and stimuate economic activities. However, deposits and lendings are two sides of a balance. It is necessary to at least think about the effects on deposits from monetary policies.

From 1997-2013, the aggregate evidence shows that Fed fund rate raises faster than deposit rates. In the model, Fed fund rate is the return in bond market, which is simplified to a market where: households can invest in illiquid assets; banks lend their money. Therefore, the bond market and banks are competitors. If the monetary policy increases the Fed fund rates, while banks can lend their money at a higher rate, households can do this as well. There are two points that seem complicated for me: (1) the bond market is influenced by Fed funds rate directly while deposit rates are assumed to be an equilibrium results of banks' choice and households' decisions; (2) Bond market is the one that banks invest as well. Even though these two assumptions can be rationalized to some extent but I would think it too abstract and tailored to the conclusion. The bond market return is low, households will be inelastic to deposit rates change because getting money from deposits has no better places to go. However, if the bond market return is high, once the deposit rates are lower, they will get the money out and put in the bond market and cash to balance the liquidity and return. 

The empirical identification strategy is to use geographic variation as the measure for market power to compare the difference of deposits across different branches of the same banks, the so-called within-bank estimates. This setting can eliminate the comfounding factors of lending opportunities under the assumption that internal capital markets work efficiently, which is a serious concern. The main result is that the implied semi-elasticity of deposits with respect to  deposit spread is -5.3, i.e., a 100 bps increase in the Fed fund rate is expected to generate a 323 bps contraction in deposits. 

My main comments are related to three assumptions mentioned above. The one about internal capital market efficiency would be the most serious. In the literature, there are a lot of papers discussing the internal capital market inefficiency (Lang and Stultz, 1994; Berger and , 1994; Shin and Stultz, 1998; Osbaz and Scarfstein, 2010). Generally, more papers are not aligned with it than the supporting ones. This may be the best we can do. But I will still be concerned that the magnitude will be overestimated. Quantification is a crucial part of this paper's result. The concern also comes from the assumption to make the Fed fund rates diretly related to bond market where households can directly participate in. Bond market investors are mostly institutional investors. Most investment of households are either in saving account, funds, stocks, or treasuries. They barely invest in corporate bonds. Therefore, we need to provide evidence that these alternative market returns also respond to the Fed fund rates quickly. Otherwise, the interpretation has to be taken in a very cautious way.
