---
layout: post
title:  "Why people do not stop? An Anto"
date:   2020-12-28 11:35:47 -0400
tags:   [review]
---



The prices of cryptocurrencies have experienced a dramatic wipeoff. 13% drop in Bitcoin price takes away more than 200 billion dollars in its value. The price drop is likely to be due to institutional investors' taking profits. However, whether the cryptocurrencies are purely a bubble remains a huge debate.

On retrospective about Dot.com bubbles, it has ambiguity when the price will stop rising. Even well aware that prices are way too high compared to the fundamental values, investors do not stop trading and fell off the cliffs when the bubble bursts. We have to admit that the institutional investors play an important role in this collusive bubble booming. But why the tradings are so vibrant that no one would like to stop. 

Scheinkman and Xiong (2003) use belief heterogeneity to explain this coexistence of high trading and high volatility. Since there are a proportion of investors in the market, even if rational investors know the value is above the fundamental, they will trade and buy in because they believe there is someone else to buy. This vicious circle will dry up the market liquidity and finally the bubble will burst. 

Now we want to evaluate how well this theory explains the bubble. First, no one knows how much is the fundamental value but they do believe that the security is overvalued. But they do not stop because they believe there must be someone to buy due to the existence of optimism. The empirical literature uses the market sentiment to measure this optimists' existence. 

I would like to use benchmark as a potential explanation for this collusive thing. Why no one want to stay instead of trading? Because the trading is profitable at least they believe, since the mutual fund managers benchmark against each other, they would have to trade because others are doing the same. Sounds like a little naive.

Reference

Jose Scheinkman and Wei Xiong (2003), Overconfidence and Speculative Bubbles, Journal of Political Economy 111, 1183-1219.
