---
layout: post
title:  "Dissection Conglomerate: A New Perspective on Divisional Investment"
date:   2020-04-16 20:21:47 -0400
image:  images/02.jpg
tags:   [conglomerates]
---
> ... divisions in high-Q manufacturing industries tend to invest" less than their stand-alone industry peers, while divisions in low-Q manufacturing industries tend" to invest more than their stand-alone industry peers....
>
> <cite>David S. Scharfstein, NBER Working Paper No. 6352</cite>

# A story

The word "conglomerate" has been ambiguously defined since its appearance. If you read the first sentence of this paper, it is very tempting to think that conglomerates are huge firms with multiple products, or multiple plants, or are multi-regional. This is vivid enough but does not speak of the core distinction of conglomerate and why it is an important topic in corporate finance. The word mostly appears as conglomerate merger instead refering to a firm until Weston (1970) gives a thorough presentation of how to define it. According to his statement, conglomerates are companies whose diversificcation, either internal or external, involves products whose engineering, design, production and marketing functional capabilities requirements **overlap to a very small degree**, which is called non-concentrically diversified companies. Some of them may operate in different industries but their products are highly correlated and economy of scale plays a crucial role. These companies are called "concentrically".  Weston gives two main operational types of conglomerates. The first is called managerial conglomerates. A group of management specialists provide services to all of the operating entities. The second is called financial conglomerates, where the parent supplies primarily financial resources. 

Since there is little economy of scale in production, why there exist some conglomerates? This question was of great interests to economists during 1950s and 1960s, until it gave ways to MM theorem and option pricing. It raises interests of financial research for the following reason:  conglomerate provides a great lab for studying internal capital market. 

In terms of the internal capital market, Gertler et al, (1994) gives a definition: headquarters allocate resources to their business units. I like Weston (1970). In his statement, internal capital market refers to managerial "ability to formulate effective financial plans and controls, and the interactive implementation of them".

Weston (1970) contends that diversified firms allocate resources more efficiently because they create a larger internal capital market and resource allocation is more efficient in internal than in external capital markets.  So less informational asymmetry become one of the major bright sides of internal capital market. People inside one firm will be less concern of the lemon market. However, there are even more literature talking about the dark side of internal capital market. Most of them provide evidence that internal capital market operates quite inefficiently in the sense of overinvestment in some bad divisions. The economics behind is because of divisional managers' rent seeking, which again is quite the opposite to the bright side in the sense that there is serious information asymmetry between central managment and divisional management.


Most of these dark side conclusions (Berger and Ofek (1994), Lang and Stultz (1994), and Shin and Stultz (1998)) are highly reliant on one assumption. That is where this paper challenges and makes itself stand out. To make that clear, we have to start from the q-theory of investment, i.e., the neoclassical theory of investment, to explain the empiricial setting. Then we extend it to the case of conglomerates and finally see how this theory directs the literature and creates challenges as well. Let's first start with clarification of Tobin's Q. Tobin's Q is an empirical concept but corresponds to the term "average q" in the theory work. In most empirical settings, Tobin's Q is defined as the ratio of market value of a firm to the **replacement costs** of its assets. However, what really guides firms' investment policy is not this "average q", the elephant in the room is called **marginal Q**. Mathematically, it is the partial derivative of a firm's value with respect to its assets. The theory indicates that firms should invest and expand their size until marginal q equals to 1. Intuitively, assume there is only one shareholder for the firm and now the firm generates a cash flow of one dollar. She can choose to take it back to the wallet or invest on an extra dollar-worth capital. If the marginal q is larger than 1, her wealth will increase by the amount of th marginal q if she invests the money into the firm while only get one dollar if she takes it home. That is how the rule works. 

The challenge of applying the theory above is that marginal Q is not directly observable. What we can observe is average q. Hayashi (1982) proves that in some special cases average Q is just a linear function of marginal Q. We have to use average q to proxy for marginal q. The higher the Tobin's q is, the more investment the firm should do. If the sensitivity is lower, it is an indication of capital allocation ineffiency. 

Now comes to conglomerate. How does the internal capital market work? If the internal capital market is efficient, divisions with high marginal q should invest more. The key question is that Tobin's Q, not even marginal Q, for divisions are not observable either. Ideally, each division will have a different stock. This is not realistic. In order to test the efficiency of internal capital market, we have to estimate it. Here comes the assumption that Berger and Ofek (1994), Lang and Stultz (1994), and Shin and Stultz (1998) use to estimate the divisional Qs, the so-called chop-shop approach. For a division in a certain industry, they use the industry median of Tobin's Q of standalone firms in that industry to proxy for the divisional Q. See the picture. We only know the q for conglomerate but not its two divisions. For division 1, we use the average of q for standalone 1 and 2 to proxy for q of division 1 and use the average of q for standalone 3 and 4 to proxy for q of division 2. Using that, Lang and Stultz (1994) show that conglomerates lead to a discount in value. Berger and Ofek (1994) finds that conglomerates have overinvestment problem in divisions with low q. Shin and Stultz (1998) find that the resource allocation inside the conglomerate is not directed to the division with the highest Q. Overall, these evidences show that internal capital markets are not efficent in allocating capitals to the optimal sectors.

As we mentioned a little bit before, for the chop-shop approach to hold, we need that the divisional q and q of the standalone firms are not systematically different. A simple way to think about it is that now we are using the average as an estimate for a variable, we need that the variable and the sample we use to estimate are from the same distribution. If they are from different ones, then our estimate will be biased and lead to uncorrect conclusions. This concern could be serious because divisions and standalones have different organizational forms. Standalone firms operate as an independent entity while divisions are controlled by the parent to some extent. This paper is trying to get rid of this assumption and check whether this concern is serious or not. Their method relies only on the data of conglomerate segments.

Let me summarize what we have discussed about the motivation, the economic question, and the contribution. Then we step in the main part.

To make it crystal clear, let's see what is the relationship between divisional q and aggregate q. The aggregate q is the ratio between market valuation and replacement costs of assets. The replacement costs of assets can be divided into the sum of the replacement costs of assets in each division.  (However, it is not so apparent to chop the value of a firm into the sum of the value of its divisions. I need to start from the DCF model. The proof can be completed under the assumption of market completeness and no arbitrage. ) The final implication is that Tobin's Q can be expressed as weighted average of divisional q. Now let's see a naive example first. Suppose there are only two conglomerates. And they operate in the same two industries. They have different weights in these two industries. Suppose in the same industry, all the divisions have the same q value. Then we can easily back out the divisional q by solving this linear equation system. 

If we extend this case to the reality, then we have more industries but much more conglomerates. Then we have more equations than unknows. There will be no solution to this equation. But based on the spirit of OLS, we can still minimize the squared error between the left hand side and the right hand side. Instead of using OLS, this paper uses the quantile regression for the concern of the postive skewness of ratio value. They also have a section talking about the strength of using quantile regression compared to OLS in this scenario. I will refer to the some standard textbooks and skip that part in the presentation.
The only takeaway is that under this framework, we get a series of new estimates of divisional Q. One thing worth noting is that our estimate of divisional Q and the standalone Q is industry-year level. For each year, divisions of different conglomerates in one industry share the same divisional Q. But we do not assume that standalone firms and conglomerate segments should have the same q. This is a progress from the old methodology.

Before we dive into the empiricial evidence, I want to emphasize the contribution of this paper again. The old literature rely on the strong assumption that divisions and standalones have no systematical difference in their q. This paper think this might be a concern and this concern is so serious that we want to give the assumption up and find another way. So the first thing we need to look at is to check whether they are really systematically different. This figure is a very nice comparison between our estimate and the estimate that has been used in the literature. We compare the residual of the estimate, i.e., the log difference between the true Tobin's Q for a conglomerate and the impute value estimate. The graph gives an intuition but not a very strong evidence. Then we can do some univariate test. Here we present both the divisional q and standalone q across industries. We see that the correlation between these two estimates are not so close to 1, which means that they contain different information. Are they significantly different? For some industries, the answer is yes! For Non-durable and Telecome industries, the p-value is close to zero, highly significant. Therefore, we can show that the authors' concern about the systematic difference between division q and standalone q is valid at least in some industries. The conclusions the literature get before should be reconsidered using this new measure. 

That starts the play of new measures. Table VI in the paper is the most important one. I will chop it into three parts. Each part we will face a new question and then solve it. Let's recall the question we jave been asking: is internal capital market efficient in capital allocation? The answer from the literature is no. Ozbas and Scharfstein (2010) uses standalone estimate as the proxy for marginal q of a division and find that conglomerate divisions are less sensitive to Tobin's Q. If we believe that the standalone q is a good estimate for the divisional Tobin's Q, then we have the implication that conglomerate is less efficient in doing capital allocation than the standalone. This result is replicated in Column (1) as the benchmark. Here SA is an indicator whether the firm is a standalone firm. The sample includes both standalones and segments. That is why the sample size is so large. As we can see, the coefficient of interaction term between SA and standalone Q is significantly positive, indicating that standalone firms respond to standalone Q much more actively.  As we discussed before, this can be interpreted as an evidence that internal capital market is not efficient enough. However, if we add the divisional Q we estimate and augment with the interaction between SA and divisional Q, the result totally changes. As we can see the standalone Q becomes insignificant while divisional Q becomes significant. Notice here the benchmark is the conglomerate division. This means that conglomerate divisions respond to divisional q instead of standalone q. If we look at the interaction term, standalone firms respond to standalone q but not divisional q. The implication here is that divisional q and standalone q contain different information about investment opportunities and divisional q caters more to conglomerates. All the papers before using standalone q have to be reconsidered about the validity of their conclusion. Again the results prove the concerns of the authors, which highlights their contribution to the literature.

Someone may disagree with the empirical setting. I used to be one of them. In Fazzarri's classic paper about financial constraints, one of their settings is also the sensitivity of investment with respect to Q, measuring the extent of financial constraint. The first set of results did not take that into account. So I was concerned about the interpretation of the results because divisional q may also reflect some information about the divisional financial constraints. In the next set of results,  this concern can be solved by adding the ratio of cash flow to sales as a measure of abundance of internal funds, which is a proxy for financial constraints. The first set of results still hold. And we also replicate the result that divisional investment is not sensitive to its own cash flow, as in Shin and Stultz (1998). This corresponds to the traditional argument about the internal capital market can relieve the financial constraint of divisions. But they also said the sensitivity of investment to cash flow will be lower in divisions with lower q. The sensitivty of investment with respect to cash flow measures the financial constraint of that division. If it is not constrained, we should expect the parent gives them more resource. If the firm is doing efficient allocation, we should see that divisions with higher q have lower cash flow sensitivity. Shin and Stultz (1998) find the opposite.

This should be overturned again in the third set of results to some extent. But I personally do not like the setting. As  I said, I expect to see an empirical setting where there is the interaction between the Q for the division and its own cash flow. Here we only have the interaction between the q and cash flow of other segments. This makes the interpretation very inaccurate. I choose not to talk about it.

In the first two sets of results, we find that conglomerate divisions respond to divisional q while standalone firms respond to standalone q. We are arguing that divisional q captures the systematic difference between conglomerates ands standalones due to different organizational form. It could also be that divisional q and standalone q are actually not that different. Our results are driven by the difference of other firm characteristics between divisions and standalones not because of the organizational form, for example, technology, which is unobservable. We want to find a clean setting to isolate the effect of operating under conglomerate or as a standalone. To do this, we focus on the event of spinoff. This is not a DID but just first-order difference. We look at the change of investment sensitivity with respect to divisional q and standalone q before and after the spinoff event. During the short window before and after the spinoff, divisional characteristics are not going to have big changes except their organization forms. We find that the spinoff does change investment sensitivity with respect to two measures, which further supports that result that the change in reaction is because of the difference of being a conglomerate division or a standalone. The takeaway will still be, standalone q is very dangerous to use and our divisional q is a better candidate for conglomerate if the concern is important for your research question.

Finally, let me conclude. This paper proposes a new methodology to estimate the divisional Tobin's Q value without using standalone firms as a proxy. They rely purely on the conglomerates themselves. We have to reconsider the traditional wisdom that internal capital market is not efficient in capital allocation. 








Before we really step in what this paper is talking about, we need to have a brief review of three concepts: (1) conglomerates; (2) diversification; (3) Tobin's Q. We need to bear in mind three questions related to these concepts: (1) why we look at conglomerates? Why conglomerates are special from other non-conglomerates? Are they just huge firms? (2) what is the interpretation of Tobin's Q? why it is related to investment?


It would be very helpful to catch this paper's idea if we can understand the following concepts and statements. Those concepts will be super important: (1) Tobin's Q; (2) Marginal Q; (3) Internal capital market.  And the statements include: (1) Q-theory of investment; (2) The efficiency of internal capital market. It is very luxurious to talk about three concepts in this short presentation. But it is crucial for us to understand how internal capital market comes into such an important position that we want to use conglomerate as a lab to understand it. Then we will see the big picture of this paper. 



Why we want to look at this problem? We want to estimate divisional tobin'q instead of just standalone tobin's Q because it gives what kind of different insights?


# Comments
This paper develops a new method to estimate the divisional valuation of conglomerates. Assuming that divisions in the same industry by from different conglomerates have the same Q value, the authors use quintile regression to estimate the value of conglomerate divisions. Based on their estimates, the paper found some results different from extant literature. Even though divisional investment is less sensitive to standalone q as shown in the literature, it is more sensitive to divisional q. 

[Lang and Stulz (1994)][lang:1994diver] forms a portfolio of comparable standalone to mimic the performance of conglomerates.

The contribution of this is its novel methodolog. I am personally very fond of the results. However, I need to give it a call to some concepts and model assumptions. Some econometric techniques can help.

My first concern is about the definition of divisional Q. It is kind of ill-defined

My second concern is about the core assumption that all conglomerates have the same divisional Q value.

The third concern is about the interpretation of the estimate. Following the second concern, the identification comes at the cost to assume all the conglomerates have the same divisional q. It is a better to interpret it as an industry Q.

**Reference**
Coase, Ronald Harry. "The nature of the firm." In Essential readings in economics, pp. 37-54. Palgrave, London, 1995.

Weston, J. Fred. "The nature and significance of conglomerate firms." . John's L. Rev. 44 (1969): 66.

Weston, J. Fred, and Surenda K. Mansinghka. "Tests of the efficiency performance of conglomerate firms." The Journal of Finance 26, no. 4 (1971): 919-936.

[lang:1994diver]: https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/abs/10.1086/261970
[coarse:1937]: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/j.1468-0335.1937.tb00002.x