---
layout: post
title:  "Strong Jobs Report & JFE New Articles"
date:   2021-04-02 15:30:47 -0400
#image:  image/02.jpg
tags:   [review]
---
# Top News Today

## Macro & Markets



### Global 



### Domestic

The Stock Market Gets Delayed Gratification from Jobs and Tesla. It just goes to show: Sometimes, old news can be good news.

Democrats Talk Up Infrastructure Plan as Republicans Tear It Apart. Some Democrats Cool to Biden's Corporate Tax Rate Plan. 
The president’s tax increases on corporations as part of a $2.3 trillion infrastructure plan have drawn a skeptical reaction from some Democrats, who instead favor borrowing money or raising other levies.  The Biden administration’s plan to spend $80 billion rebuilding U.S. railways could enable Amtrak to pursue the ambitious goal of providing a nationwide alternative to short flights or driving. 


Deportations and Arrests of Immigrants in the U.S. Illegally Fall Sharply Under Biden. 
The new administration has shifted enforcement priorities to focus on those with serious criminal records, drawing criticism from Republicans. 

How Open Is America? Foot Traffic Provides Clues 


## Industry

America’s Underdog Vaccine Struggles to Find Its Footing

Why Facebook Is a Buy. For all of its baggage, Mark Zuckerberg’s Facebook remains a resilient growth machine. 

The number of Covid-19 cases has dropped in most states from January highs while vaccination distribution has picked up, but life in the U.S. isn’t back to normal. 



### Personal Finance

If You Sell a House, the Buyer Might Be a Pension Fund. Yield-chasing investors are snapping up single-family homes, competing with ordinary Americans and driving up prices. 





The Lincoln Project






	 












 



























